---
title: 'Looking for a MITAC Accelerate Partner: Organization Wanted'
date: 2019-09-11
permalink: /posts/2019/09/mitacs/
tags:
  - Funding
  - Internship
  - Research
---

What is a MITACS Accelerate Internship?
======
MITACS accelerate is an internship where a graduate student, their supervisor and an industry partner collaborate to identify research projects and objectives of strategic and economic importance to the industry partner. The graduate studen then embarks four months internship where they collect data and perform other work with the industry partner, culiminating in a high-quality research deliverable.

How does funding work?
---
The scholarship org (MITACS) matches the salary of a researcher up to $7,500 so the graduate student receives up to $15,000 in funding. Though both those levels are the absolute ceiling for funding.

The organization can be a private institution or a not-for-profit. Ideally the industry partner or department would have an information-security related focus. 

What would your organization get out of this?
---
A qualified intern capable of executing a high-quality research project to help your organization meet strategic objectives.

Ideally a great partner would be an organization looking to do research into the security awareness of their workplace, though any kind of human-centric research on employees, clients or users involving security would be a good fit. 

I have a strong background in organizing and running a large-scale security awareness program and I know a lot of organizations run security awareness via PTE - so if you wanted to pick up someone on subsidized hours - this would be a great opportunity to do so.

What do I (Alex) get out of it?
---
The funding for this would help me pay to wrap up graduate school and the experience would help me develop a strong portfolio of work in the private sector. Perhaps more importantly for a PhD, a MITACS partnership is a really impressive bonafide on an academic CV in Canada.

Relevant Links
------
Mitacs Accelerate Internship Details: https://www.mitacs.ca/en/programs/accelerate
